# NYC-Airbnb-Hosting-Strategy

## About The Project
It can be both exciting and nerve-racking to start an Airbnb business in New York City, the №1 tourist destination in the US. On one hand, you probably have heard of numerous successful stories and are eager to make your own luck. On the other hand, you may be bothered by fundamental questions, such as which property to invest in and what is a fair price for your listing.

One good way of answering those question is to look into historical listings. In this project, I analyzed a [Kaggle dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/dgomonov/new-york-city-airbnb-open-data) that records all Airbnb listings in NYC during the year of 2019, and tried to provide three tips for starting a profitable Airbnb business:
- Strategies to find an investment property for listing
- Strategies to price a listing
- Strategies to name/describe a listing

**For details of the data analysis, read my [Medium Post](https://medium.com/@chenby04/three-data-driven-tips-on-starting-a-profitable-airbnb-business-in-nyc-a57af330a8ec)**

 
## Getting Started
- Prerequisites
    ```
    Python==3.8.8
    wordcloud==1.8.1
    seaborn==0.11.1
    scikit-learn==0.24.2
    pandas==1.2.4
    numpy==1.20.1
    nltk==3.6.1
    multidict==5.1.0
    matplotlib==3.3.4
    ```
- Clone the repo
   ```
   git clone https://github.com/chenby04/NYC-Airbnb-Hosting-Strategy
   ```
- File descriptions
   ```
    - NYC-Airbnb-Hosting-Strategy/
    | - images/ # NYC map and figures generated by the Jupyter Notebook
    | - AB_NYC_2019.csv  # raw data
    | - NYC_Airbnb_Hosting_Strategy.ipynb  # Jupyter Notebook for data analysis
    ```

- Usage
    
    Run the Jypyter Notebook NYC_Airbnb_Hosting_Strategy.ipynb


## Summary of Results
- Strategies to find an investment property for listing

    Among the 221 neighbourhoods covered in the dataset, 7 neighbourhoods (Chelsea, East Village, Hell’s Kitchen, Lower East Side, Midtown, Upper East Side, and Upper West Side) have both high listing quantities and high average listing price, which might be good places for investment. 
    
    Results also show that half of the listings in NYC are offering a private room instead of an entire apartment/house, so people who with only an extra bedroom (or even a living room) could still become Airbnb hosts.

- Strategies to price a listing

    A random forest regressor was trained to suggest price for new listings. After hyperparameter tuning with grid search and cross validation, the regressor achieved an MSE of 1302 for test data. 
    
    The model sometimes underestimated the listing price. This is probably because some factors that can raise up the price were not included in the regressor, such as extra number of guests an apartment/room can host, availability of the listing during Christmas, view of Empire State Building from a private deck, and proximity to subway stations.

- Strategies to name/describe a listing

    The four most-mentioned aspects in listing titles are: room type (bedroom, apart, studio, etc.), location (brooklyn, manhattan, etc.), amenity (park), and distinguishing features (private, cozy, spacious, etc.). Covering them in title will help potential guests catch key information at a glance.

## Future Directions
The dataset used in this study focus on details of the listing itself, such as location, price, and guest-reviews. For a more complete image, future studies could pull in more datasets, such as a real estate dataset that records the sale prices of each property, a crime dataset that records the crime rate of each neighbourhood, and a public transportation dataset that provides the proximity of each property to subway station/ferry terminal.

## Acknowledgements
- This project is part of the training requested by Udacity's [Data Scientiest Nanodegree Program](https://www.udacity.com/course/data-scientist-nanodegree--nd025).




